---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "truenas_share_smb Resource - terraform-provider-truenas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  SMB (also known as CIFS) is the native file sharing system in Windows. SMB shares can connect to any major operating system, including Windows, MacOS, and Linux. SMB can be used in TrueNAS to share files among single or multiple users or devices.
---

# truenas_share_smb (Resource)

SMB (also known as CIFS) is the native file sharing system in Windows. SMB shares can connect to any major operating system, including Windows, MacOS, and Linux. SMB can be used in TrueNAS to share files among single or multiple users or devices.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "truenas_share_smb" "smb" {
  path = "<mount path on host to share>"
  path_suffix = "<optional suffix to append to mount path>"
  purpose = "<optional TrueNAS preset ID (might lock some settings!)>"
  comment = "<optional comment for this share>"
  hostsallow = [
    "<optional CIDR host/network to allow access for>",
  ]
  hostsdeny = [
    "<optional CIDR host/network to deny access for or 'ALL' for whitelist model>",
  ]
  name = "<optional share name, defaults to last path segment>"
  ro = true
  aapl_name_mangling = false
  abe = false
  acl = true
  auxsmbconf = ""
  browsable = false
  durablehandle = false
  enabled = true
  fsrvp = false
  guestok = false
  home = false
  recyclebin = false
  shadowcopy = true
  streams = false
  timemachine = false
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `path` (String) Path to shared directory

### Optional

- `aapl_name_mangling` (Boolean) Use Apple-style Character Encoding
- `abe` (Boolean) Access based share enumeration
- `acl` (Boolean) Enable support for storing the SMB Security Descriptor as a Filesystem ACL
- `auxsmbconf` (String) Auxiliary smb4.conf parameters
- `browsable` (Boolean) Browsable to network clients
- `comment` (String) Any notes about this SMB share
- `durablehandle` (Boolean) Enable SMB2/3 Durable Handles: Allow using open file handles that can withstand short disconnections
- `enabled` (Boolean) Enable this share
- `fsrvp` (Boolean) Enable support for the File Server Remote VSS Protocol.
- `guestok` (Boolean) Allow access to this share without a password
- `home` (Boolean) Use as home share
- `hostsallow` (Set of String) Authorized hosts (IP/hostname)
- `hostsdeny` (Set of String) Disallowed hosts (IP/hostname). Pass 'ALL' to use whitelist model.
- `name` (String) SMB share name. Defaults to last part of shared path.
- `path_suffix` (String) Append a suffix to the share connection path. This is used to provide unique shares on a per-user, per-computer, or per-IP address basis.
- `purpose` (String) You can set a share purpose to apply and lock pre-determined advanced options for the share.
- `recyclebin` (Boolean) Export recycle bin
- `ro` (Boolean) Prohibit writing
- `shadowcopy` (Boolean) Export ZFS snapshots as Shadow Copies for Microsoft Volume Shadow Copy Service (VSS) clients
- `streams` (Boolean) Enable Alternate Data Streams: Allow multiple NTFS data streams. Disabling this option causes macOS to write streams to files on the filesystem.
- `timemachine` (Boolean) Enable TimeMachine backups to this share

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `sharesmb_id` (Number) SMB Share ID
- `vuid` (String) Share VUID (set when using as TimeMachine share)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import truenas_share_smb.default {{sharesmb_id}}

# Example:
tf import truenas_share_smb.default "3"
```
