---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "truenas_user Resource - terraform-provider-truenas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Creates a user
---

# truenas_user (Resource)

Creates a user

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "truenas_user" "tu" {
  email             = "jane.doe@example.com"
  full_name         = "Jane Doe"
  create_group      = true
  gid               = 42
  uid               = 42
  name              = "jane_doe"
  home_directory    = "/mnt/tank/Users/JaneDoe"
  home_mode         = "0775"
  smb               = false
  sudo              = false
  sudo_nopasswd     = false
  password_disabled = true
  shell             = "/usr/local/bin/bash"
  ssh_public_key    = "ssh-rsa ... jane.doe@example.com"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `full_name` (String) User full name.
- `name` (String) Specifies the username for the account.

### Optional

- `create_group` (Boolean) Create a new primary group for this user.
- `email` (String) User email address.
- `gid` (Number) Primary Group ID. If not provided, it is automatically filled with the next one available.
- `group_ids` (Set of Number) List of Group IDs the user belongs to.
- `home_directory` (String) Home directory path.
- `home_mode` (String) Home directory mode.
- `locked` (Boolean) Specifies whether the account is locked.
- `microsoft_account` (Boolean) Specifies whether the account is used for Microsoft authentication.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Specifies the account password. Cannot be read (one-way hashed on the server.)
- `password_disabled` (Boolean) Specifies whether the account can only use SSH keys for authentication.
- `shell` (String) Specifies the shell executable for the user.
- `smb` (Boolean) Specifies whether the user should be mapped into an NT login account.
- `ssh_public_key` (String) Specifies an initial SSH public key to establish on the account.
- `sudo` (Boolean) Specifies whether the user may invoke sudo.
- `sudo_commands` (Set of String) Specifies a list of executables the user may invoke via sudo without a password.
- `sudo_no_password` (Boolean) Specifies whether the user may invoke sudo without a password.
- `uid` (Number) User ID. If not provided, it is automatically filled with the next one available.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import truenas_user.default {{user_id}}

# Example:
terraform import truenas_user.default "42"
```
