---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "truenas_zvol Resource - terraform-provider-truenas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manage ZFS Volume (zvol), use of TF prevent_destroy (https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/meta-arguments/lifecycle.html#prevent_destroy) flag is recommended to avoid accidental deletion
---

# truenas_zvol (Resource)

Manage ZFS Volume (zvol), use of TF `prevent_destroy` (https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/meta-arguments/lifecycle.html#prevent_destroy) flag is recommended to avoid accidental deletion

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "truenas_zvol" "zv" {
  pool = "Tank"
  name = "TF ZVOL"
  volsize = 1024 * 1024 * 1024 // 1GiB
  comments = "Test comment"
  compression = "lz4"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `compression` (String) Compression level
- `name` (String) Unique identifier for the volume. Cannot be changed after the zvol is created.
- `pool` (String)
- `volsize` (Number) Volume size in bytes, should be multiples of block size

### Optional

- `blocksize` (String) Volume blocksize
- `comments` (String) Any notes about this volume.
- `deduplication` (String) Transparently reuse a single copy of duplicated data to save space. Deduplication can improve storage capacity, but is RAM intensive. Compressing data is generally recommended before using deduplication. Deduplicating data is a one-way process. *Deduplicated data cannot be undeduplicated!*.
- `encryption_algorithm` (String)
- `force_size` (Boolean) The system restricts creating a zvol that brings the pool to over 80% capacity. Set to force creation of the zvol (not recommended)
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `inherit_encryption` (Boolean) Use the encryption properties of the root dataset.
- `parent` (String) Parent dataset
- `readonly` (String) Set to prevent the zvol from being modified
- `sync` (String) Sets the data write synchronization. `inherit` takes the sync settings from the parent dataset, `standard` uses the settings that have been requested by the client software, `always` waits for data writes to complete, and `disabled` never waits for writes to complete.

### Read-Only

- `copies` (Number)
- `encrypted` (Boolean)
- `encryption_root` (String)
- `key_format` (String)
- `key_loaded` (Boolean)
- `locked` (Boolean)
- `pbkdf2iters` (Number)
- `ref_reservation` (Number)
- `reservation` (Number)
- `zvol_id` (String)


